CGroupV2 1.25 GA blog post (#35452)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-08-04-cgroupv2-ga.md

---
layout: blog

> title: "CGroup V2 Goes GA in 1.25"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Kubernetes 1.25: cgroup v2 graduates to GA"
```
Or stable, IDK what the right terminology is

Suggestion is for consistency with other feature graduation blogs in the k8s blog

Author: Good idea, used GA for now.

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.25: cgroup v2 graduates to GA"
date: 2022-08-31
slug: cgroupv2-ga-1-25
---

> **Authors:**: David Porter (Google), Mrunal Patel (RedHat)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Authors:**: David Porter (Google), Mrunal Patel (Red Hat)
```

Kubernetes 1.25 brings cgroup v2 to GA (general availability), letting the

> kubelet use the latest resource management capabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[kubelet](/docs/concepts/overview/components/#kubelet) use the latest container resource
management capabilities.
```

## What are cgroups?

Effective [resource management](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) is a
critical aspect of Kubernetes. This involves managing the finite resources in
your nodes, such as CPU, memory, and storage.

*cgroups* are a Linux kernel capability that establish resource management
functionality like limiting CPU usage or setting memory limits for running
processes.

When you use the resource management capabilities in Kubernetes, such as configuring
[requests and limits for Pods and containers](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#requests-and-limits),
Kubernetes uses cgroups to enforce your resource requests and limits.

The Linux kernel offers two versions of cgroups: cgroup v1 and cgroup v2.

## What is cgroup v2?

cgroup v2 is the latest version of the Linux cgroup API. cgroup v2 provides a
unified control system with enhanced resource management capabilities.

cgroup v2 has been development in the Linux Kernel since 2016 and in recent
years has matured across the container ecosystem. With Kubernetes 1.25, cgroup

> v2 support is graduating to GA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
v2 support has graduated to general availability.
```

> Many new Linux distributions have switched over to cgroup v2 by default so it's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many Linux distributions have switched over to cgroup v2 by default so it's
```

Also not-so-new distributions such as Ubuntu and, er, Debian (started in 1993). I'd drop the “new”, or clarify that you mean “recent releases of”.

Author: good point, reworded to "recent releases of"

important that Kubernetes continues to work well on these new updated distros.

cgroup v2 offers several improvements over cgroup v1, such as the following:

* Single unified hierarchy design in API
* Safer sub-tree delegation to containers

> * Newer features like Pressure Stall Information

Reviewer 2: Optionally, link to https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/accounting/psi.html

Author: Added!

* Enhanced resource allocation management and isolation across multiple resources
    * Unified accounting for different types of memory allocations (network and kernel memory, etc)
    * Accounting for non-immediate resource changes such as page cache write backs

Some Kubernetes features exclusively use cgroup v2 for enhanced resource
management and isolation. For example,

> the [MemoryQoS feature](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/11/26/qos-memory-resources/) improves

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
the [MemoryQoS feature](/blog/2021/11/26/qos-memory-resources/) improves
```

> memory QoS and relies on cgroup v2 functionality to enable it. New resource

Reviewer 2: nit: would be good to reword. Currently this is a bit tautological and doesn't inform readers who haven't encountered the need for QoS around containers and RAM.

What word(s) should go after memory (eg: performance, bus read latency, allocation reliability)? I think the effect is to reduce the impact of one container / Pod on another container / Pod's allocations, but it's been a while since I looked at that feature. A good summary would be nice.

Author: I updated a bit, I think "utilization" might be one way we can describe it

management features in the kubelet will also take advantage of the new cgroup
v2 features moving forward.

## How do you use cgroup v2?

> Many Linux distributions are switching to cgroup v2 by default, you might start

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many Linux distributions are switching to cgroup v2 by default; you might start
```

using it the next time you update the Linux version of your control plane and
nodes!

Using a Linux distribution that uses cgroup v2 by default is the recommended
method. Some of the popular Linux distributions that use cgroup v2 include the
following:

* Container Optimized OS (since M97)
* Ubuntu (since 21.10)
* Debian GNU/Linux (since Debian 11 Bullseye)
* Fedora (since 31)
* Arch Linux (since April 2021)
* RHEL and RHEL-like distributions (since 9)

To check if your distribution uses cgroup v2 by default,
refer to [Check your cgroup version](/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups/#check-cgroup-version) or
consult your distribution's documentation.

> If you're using a managed Kubernetes offering, consult your provider to
> determine how they're adopting cgroup v2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're using a managed Kubernetes offering, consult your provider to
determine how they're adopting cgroup v2, and whether you need to take action.
```

## Migrate to cgroup v2

When you run Kubernetes with a Linux distribution that enables cgroup v2, the
kubelet should automatically adapt without any additional configuration
required, as long as you meet the requirements.

In most cases, you won't see a difference in the user experience when you
switch to using cgroup v2 unless your users access the cgroup file system
directly.

If you have applications that access the cgroup file system directly, either on
the node or from inside a container, you must update the applications to use
the cgroup v2 API instead of the cgroup v1 API.

Scenarios in which you might need to update to cgroup v2 include the following:

* If you run third-party monitoring and security agents that depend on the cgroup file system, update the
  agents to versions that support cgroup v2.
* If you run [cAdvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor) as a stand-alone
  DaemonSet for monitoring pods and containers, update it to v0.43.0 or later.
* If you deploy Java applications with the JDK, prefer to use JDK 11.0.16 and
  later or JDK 15 and later, which [fully support cgroup v2](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8230305).

## Learn more

> * Read the [Kubernetes cgroup v2 documentation](/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Read the [Kubernetes cgroup v2 documentation](/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups/)
```

---

> layout: blog

Reviewer: Could you please do line breaks at ~80 characters as well? Thank you

Author: Done!

title: "CGroup V2 Goes GA in 1.25"
date: 2022-08-04
slug: cgroupv2-ga-1-25
---
Authors: David Porter (Google), Mrunal Patel (RedHat)

> Kubernetes 1.25 brings cgroup v2 to GA, enabling kubelet to use the latest resource management capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes 1.25 brings cgroup v2 to GA, letting the kubelet use the latest resource management capabilities.
```

## What are cgroups?

> One of the most important aspects of Kubernetes is [resource management](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) which is concerned with how to manage finite resources in clusters across nodes such as CPU, Memory, Disk, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Effective [resource management](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) is a critical aspect of Kubernetes. This involves managing the finite resources in your nodes, such as CPU, memory, and storage.
```

> Anytime you're  making use of resource management capabilities in Kubernetes like setting [Requests and Limits across CPU and Memory](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#requests-and-limits) for your pods, cgroups are being used.
> 
> cgroups are a low level Linux kernel capability that underpin resource management functionality like limiting CPU usage or setting memory limits.
> 
> There are two versions of cgroups offered in the Linux kernel cgroups v1 and cgroups v2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*cgroups* are a Linux kernel capability that establish resource management functionality like
limiting CPU usage or setting memory limits for running processes.

When you use the resource management capabilities in Kubernetes, such as configuring [requests and limits for Pods and containers](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#requests-and-limits),
Kubernetes uses cgroups to enforce your resource requests and limits.

The Linux kernel offers two versions of cgroups: cgroup v1 and cgroup v2.
```

## What is cgroup v2?

> cgroup v2 is the next version of the Linux cgroup API. cgroup v2 provides a unified control system with enhanced resource management capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cgroup v2 is the latest version of the Linux cgroup API. cgroup v2 provides a unified control system with enhanced resource management capabilities.
```

> cgroup v2 has been development in the Linux Kernel since 2016 and in recent years has matured across the container ecosystem. With Kubernetes 1.25, cgroup v2 support is graduating to GA.
> 
> Many new Linux distributions have switched over to cgroup v2 by default so it's important that Kubernetes continues to work well on these new updated distros.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cgroup v2 has been in development since 2016, and has matured in the container ecosystem. Many Linux distributions have switched to use cgroup v2 by default. It's important that Kubernetes continues to work well
on these updated distributions. In Kubernetes 1.25, cgroup v2 support is graduating to GA.
```

Is GA what we use or stable?

Author: Looking through older blogs, look like stable, let me rename GA to stable throughout.

cgroup v2 offers several improvements over cgroup v1, such as the following:

* Single unified hierarchy design in API
* Safer sub-tree delegation to containers
* Newer features like Pressure Stall Information
* Enhanced resource allocation management and isolation across multiple resources
    * Unified accounting for different types of memory allocations (network and kernel memory, etc)
    * Accounting for non-immediate resource changes such as page cache write backs

> Some Kubernetes features exclusively use cgroup v2 for enhanced resource management and isolation. For example, the [MemoryQoS feature](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/11/26/qos-memory-resources/) improves memory QoS and relies on cgroup v2 primitives to enable it. New resource management features in kubelet will also take advantage of the new cgroup v2 features moving forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some Kubernetes features exclusively use cgroup v2 for enhanced resource management and isolation.
For example, the [MemoryQoS feature](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/11/26/qos-memory-resources/)
improves memory QoS and relies on cgroup v2 primitives to enable it. New resource management features in
the kubelet will also take advantage of the new cgroup v2 features moving forward.
```

Is the word "primitives" something we should think about?

Author: Let's rename primitives -> functionality?

> ## How do I use cgroup v2?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How do you use cgroup v2?
```

> As you update your cluster and nodes to a newer Linux distribution, you may be already using cgroup v2!
> 
> The recommended way to use cgroup v2 is to use a Linux distribution that enables and uses cgroup v2 by default, for example one of the many distributions below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many Linux distributions are switching to cgroup v2 by default, you might start using it the
next time you update the Linux version of your control plane and nodes!

Using a Linux distribution that uses cgroup v2 by default is the recommended method. Some of the
popular Linux distributions that use cgroup v2 include the following:
```

* Container Optimized OS (since M97)
* Ubuntu (since 21.10)
* Debian GNU/Linux (since Debian 11 Bullseye)
* Fedora (since 31)
* Arch Linux (since April 2021)
* RHEL and RHEL-like distributions (since 9)

> To check if your distribution uses cgroup v2 by default, you can follow the instructions [here](/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups/#check-cgroup-version) or consult your OS distribution documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check if your distribution uses cgroup v2 by default, refer to [Check your cgroup version](/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups/#check-cgroup-version)
or consult your distribution's documentation.
```

> If you're using a managed kubernetes offering, consult with your provider to determine how they're adopting cgroup v2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using a managed Kubernetes offering, consult your provider to determine how they're adopting
cgroup v2.
```

> Using cgroup v2 with kubernetes has the following requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use cgroup v2 with Kubernetes, you must meet the following requirements:
```

> * OS distribution enables cgroup v2 on kernel version 5.8 or later

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your Linux distribution enables cgroup v2 on kernel version 5.8 or later
```

> * Container runtime supports cgroup v2. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your container runtime supports cgroup v2. For example:
```

  * [containerd](https://containerd.io/) v1.4 or later
  * [cri-o](https://cri-o.io/) v1.20 or later
* The kubelet and the container runtime are configured to use the [systemd cgroup driver](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes#systemd-cgroup-driver)

> The kubelet and container runtime use a [cgroup driver](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes#cgroup-drivers) to set cgroup limits. When using cgroup v2, it's highly recommended that both kubelet and your container runtime (e.g. containerd or CRI-O) use [systemd cgroup driver](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes#systemd-cgroup-driver). This ensures that there is only a single cgroup manager on the system. Refer to the [systemd cgroup driver documentation](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes#systemd-cgroup-driver) about how to configure kubelet and the container runtime to use systemd as the cgroup driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The kubelet and container runtime use a [cgroup driver](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes#cgroup-drivers)
to set cgroup limits. When using cgroup v2, it's strongly recommended that both the kubelet and your
container runtime use the
[systemd cgroup driver](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes#systemd-cgroup-driver),
so that there's a single cgroup manager on the system. To configure the kubelet and the container runtime
to use the driver, refer to the
[systemd cgroup driver documentation](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes#systemd-cgroup-driver).
```

What is "cgroup limits" ? We havent mentioned it before. Do you mean cgroup parameters?

Author: Yes "parameters" sounds like a better fit, renamed to use it instead.

> ## Migrating to cgroup v2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Migrate to cgroup v2
```

> When you run kubelet on a Linux distribution that enables cgroup v2, kubelet should automatically perform accordingly without any additional configuration required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run Kubernetes with a Linux distribution that enables cgroup v2, the kubelet should
automatically adapt without any additional configuration required, as long as you meet the
requirements.
```

> You should not find any noticeable difference in the user experience when switching to cgroup v2, unless users are accessing the cgroup file system directly, either on the node or from within the containers.
> 
> It's important to note that the cgroup v2 uses a different API compared to cgroup v1, so if there any applications that read the cgroup file system, they should be updated to support cgroup v2. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases, you won't see a difference in the user experience when you switch to using cgroup v2 unless
your users access the cgroup file system directly.

If you have applications that access the cgroup file system directly, either on the node or
from inside a container, you must update the applications to use the cgroup v2 API instead of the
cgroup v1 API.

Scenarios in which you might need to update to cgroup v2 include the following:
```

> * Some third-party monitoring and security agents may depend on the cgroup filesystem. Update these agents to versions that support cgroup v2.
> * If you run [cAdvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor) as a stand-alone DaemonSet for monitoring pods and containers, update it to v0.43.0 or later.
> * If you deploy Java applications with the JDK, prefer to use JDK 11.0.16 and later or JDK 15 and later, which [fully support cgroup v2](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8230305).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you run third-party monitoring and security agents that depend on the cgroup file system, update the
  agents to versions that support cgroup v2.
* If you run [cAdvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor) as a stand-alone DaemonSet for monitoring pods and containers, update it to v0.43.0 or later.
* If you deploy Java applications with the JDK, prefer to use JDK 11.0.16 and later or JDK 15 and later, which [fully support cgroup v2](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8230305).
```

> ## How can I learn more?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Learn more
```

* Read the [Kubernetes cgroup v2 documentation](/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups)
* Read the enhancement proposal, [KEP 2254](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/2254-cgroup-v2/README.md)
* Learn more about [cgroups](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/cgroups.7.html) on Linux Man Pages and [cgroup v2](https://docs.kernel.org/admin-guide/cgroup-v2.html) on the Linux Kernel documentation

> ## How do I get involved?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Get involved
```

> Your feedback is always welcome! SIG Node meets regularly and can be reached via [Slack](https://slack.k8s.io/) (channel `#sig-node`), or the SIG's [mailing list](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-node#contact).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your feedback is always welcome! SIG Node meets regularly and are available in the `#sig-node` channel
in the Kubernetes [Slack](https://slack.k8s.io/), or using the SIG [mailing list](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-node#contact).
```

> We would love work on new resource management capabilities on top of cgroup v2.

Reviewer: Feels like this sentence doesn't add much value

Author: Removed

> cgroup v2 has had a long journey and is a great example of OSS community collaboration across the industry since it requires work across the stack from the Linux Kernel to systemd to container runtimes, and Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cgroup v2 has had a long journey and is a great example of open source community collaboration
across the industry because it required work across the stack, from the Linux Kernel to systemd to
various container runtimes, and (of course) Kubernetes.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Acknowledgments

```

> We would like to thank [Giuseppe Scrivano](https://github.com/giuseppe) who initiated cgroup v2 support in kubernetes, and reviews and leadership from the SIG-Node community including chairs [Dawn Chen](https://github.com/dchen1107) and [Derek Carr](https://github.com/derekwaynecarr).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We would like to thank [Giuseppe Scrivano](https://github.com/giuseppe) who initiated cgroup v2 support
in Kubernetes, and reviews and leadership from the SIG Node community including chairs [Dawn Chen](https://github.com/dchen1107) and [Derek Carr](https://github.com/derekwaynecarr).
```

> Additionally we would like to thank maintainers of container runtimes like Docker, containerd and CRI-O as well as maintainers of low level components such as [cAdvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor) and [runc, libcontainer](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc) which underpin many container runtimes. And of course it would not be possible without support from systemd and upstream Linux Kernel maintainers. It's a team effort!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'd also like to thank the maintainers of container runtimes like Docker, containerd and CRI-O,
and the maintainers of components like
[cAdvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor) and [runc, libcontainer](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc),
which underpin many container runtimes. Finally, this wouldn't have been possible without support from systemd
and upstream Linux Kernel maintainers.

It's a team effort!
```
